## ![Opis obrazka](https://www.tiobe.com/wp-content/themes/tiobe/tiobe-index/images/Java.png) Learn more about Java

Java is a widely-used programming language for coding web applications. It has
been a popular choice among developers for over two decades, with millions of
Java applications in use today. Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, and
network-centric language that can be used as a platform in itself. It is a fast,
secure, reliable programming language for coding everything from mobile apps and
enterprise software to big data applications and server-side technologies.

The Java™ Programming Language is a general-purpose, concurrent, strongly typed,
class-based object-oriented language. It is normally compiled to the bytecode
instruction set and binary format defined in the Java Virtual Machine
Specification.

Java is a widely used object-oriented programming language and software platform
that runs on billions of devices, including notebook computers, mobile devices,
gaming consoles, medical devices and many others. The rules and syntax of Java
are based on the C and C++ languages.

Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to
have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to let
application developers Write Once and Run Anywhere (WORA), meaning that compiled
Java code can run on all platforms that support Java without the need for
recompilation. Java was developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems Inc. in
May 1995 and later acquired by Oracle Corporation and is widely used for
developing applications for desktop, web, and mobile devices. Java is known for
its simplicity, robustness, and security features, making it a popular choice
for enterprise-level applications. Java applications are compiled to byte code
that can run on any Java Virtual Machine. The syntax of Java is similar to
C/C++.

Java is the name of a programming language created by Sun Microsystems. This
company was bought out by Oracle Corporation, which continues to keep it up to
date. It is designed to be platform-independent, which means that code written
in Java can run on any device or operating system that has a Java Virtual
Machine (JVM) installed. This makes Java a popular choice for developing cross-
platform applications and games. Additionally, Java has a large and active
community, and a wide range of libraries and frameworks available for use.[1] As
of March 2023[update], Java 20 is the latest version (will be supported until
September 2023), while Java 17, 11 and 8 are the current long-term support (LTS)
versions. Being an LTS version means that it will continue getting updates for
multiple years. The next planned LTS version is Java 21 (LTS), planned for
September 2023.[2]

